[[_counters-and-measurements]]
= Counters and measurements

This section describes the JMX counters defined in IM-SCF Java
processes.

[[_low-level-counters-both-sl-and-el]]
== Low-level counters (both SL and EL)

The counters below are LWComm module’s internal counters and can be used
to intercept the low-level communication between Execution and Signaling
layer servers.

[cols=",",frame="all",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Counter name|Description
|StartupTimestamp |Gets the time when the statistics started (startup or
last call to resetStatistics)

|FirstOutgoingMessageCount |Count of messages sent for the first time.
Equals to the count of the calls to send()

|TimeoutMessageCount |Count of messages for which no ACK has been
received at all

|CancelMessageCount |Count of messages for which cancel has been called
by the user

|RetransmitMessageCount |Count of retransmit messages sent to the
original destination

|FailoverMessageCount |Count of first failover messages sent. That is,
the first message sent to the failover destination

|FailoverRetransmitMessageCount |Count of retransmit messages sent to
failover destination.

|ProcessedIncomingMessageCount |Count of messages received, the messages
with same id counted as one.

|QueuedIncomingMessageCount |Count of incoming messages successfully put
on target queue.

|ProcessedAckCount |Count of ACK messages received, the ACKs with the
same id counted as one.

|ReceivedHeartbeatCount |Count of HB messages received.

|SentHeartbeatCount |Count of HB messages sent.

|MessageSenderStoreSize |The number of elements in the message sender
store. That is, the number of concurrent outgoing messages.

|ProcessedIncomingMessageStoreSize |The number of messages which have
been processed in the near past.

|ReceivedAckStoreSize |The number of elements in the received ACK store.
That is, the ACK identifiers received in the "near past" to track
multiple ACKs.

|InvalidMessageCount |The number of unparseable messages received.

|OutOfOrderMessageCount |The number of messages, which have
retransmitted to this node. (But shouldn't have since this node has
already processed the first message and sent ACK.)

|OutOfOrderAckCount |The number of received ACK messages which indicate
that the message has been processed by more than one node.

|AverageHandlerTimeUs |Gets the average time spent in channelRead0 - the
main entry point of incoming messages.

|MaxHandlerTimeUs |Gets the maximum time spent in channelRead0 - the
main entry point of incoming messages.

|AverageAckTurnaroundTimeUs |Gets the average time in microseconds to
wait for an outgoing message's ACK.

|MaxAckTurnaroundTimeUs |Gets the maximum time in microseconds to wait
for an outgoing message's ACK.

|AverageSendChannelWaitTimeUs |Gets the average time spent waiting for a
free client channel to send a message.

|MaxSendChannelWaitTimeUs |Gets the maximum time spent waiting for a
free client channel to send a message.

|AverageWorkerTimeUs |Gets the average time in microseconds for a
message to be processed by the user's message receiver. Note that if a
message is grouped, then this time includes the waiting time of group id
lock as well.

|MaxWorkerTimeUs |Gets the maximum time in microseconds for a message to
be processed by the user's message receiver. Note that if a message is
grouped, then this time includes the waiting time of group id lock as
well.
|=======================================================================

[[_signaling-layer-server-counters-and-attributes]]
== Signaling Layer server counters and attributes

Signaling Layer servers have attributes rather than counters. There is
an MBean defined for each remote point code, this MBean has the
information if the remote system is alive or not and how many messages
have been sent and received from the system. For example for point code
280 (alias MSS0) there is an MBean named SignalingLayerServerRuntimeMSS0
defined with the following attributes:

[cols=",",frame="all",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description
|PointCode |The pointcode for the alias (e.g. 280 in this case)

|Reachable |Boolean value tells if there is active connection between
IM-SCF and the remote system

|MessagesSent |The count of SCCP messages sent to this remote system

|MessagesReceived |The count of SCCP messages received from this remote
system
|=======================================================================

[[_execution-layer-server-counters-and-attributes]]
== Execution Layer server counters and attributes

The ExecutionLayer servers have multiple MBeans registered.

The MBeans with type __“SipAs”__ represent a SIP application server group
member and shows if the SIP endpoint is reachable or not. The attributes
of the MBean are the following:

[cols=",",frame="all",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description
|GroupName |The name of the SIP application server group this endpoint
belongs to.

|Ip |The IP address of the endpoint

|Name |The name of the endpoint

|Port |The SIP port of the endpoint

|Reachable |A Boolean value showing if the endpoint is reachable
|=======================================================================

MBeans with type __“ServiceKeyStatistics”__ show important message counters
per service key. For each service key the IM-SCF instance has dealt
with, an MBean is defined with the following attributes:

[cols=",",frame="all",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Counter name |Description
|ActivityTestRequestCount |ActivityTest message count sent by IM-SCF

|ActivityTestResponseCount |ActivityTest responses received by IM-SCF

|ApplyChargingCount |ApplyCharging message count sent by IM-SCF

|ApplyChargingReportCount |ApplyChargingReport message count received by
IM-SCF

|CancelCount |Cancel message count received by IM-SCF

|ConnectCount |Connect message count sent by IM-SCF

|ConnectToResourceCount |ConnectToResource message count sent by IM-SCF

|ContinueCount |Continue message count sent by IM-SCF

|ContinueWithArgumentCount |ContinueWithArgument message count sent by
IM-SCF

|DisconnectForwardConnectionCount |DisconnectForwardConnection message
count sent by IM-SCF

|DisconnectForwardConnectionWithArgumentCount
|DisconnectForwardConnectionWithArgument message count sent by IM-SCF

|DisconnectLegCount |DisconnectLeg message count sent by IM-SCF

|EventReportBCSMCount |EventReportBCSM message count received by IM-SCF

|FurnishChargingInformationCount |FurnishChargingInformation message
count send by IM-SCF

|InitialDPCount |InitialDP message count received by IM-SCF

|InitiateCallAttemptCount |InitiateCallAttempt message count sent by
IM-SCF

|InitiateCallAttemptResponseCount |ICA response message count received
by IM-SCF

|MoveLegCount |MoveLeg message count sent by IM-SCF

|MovelLegResponseCount |Responses for MoveLeg message count received by
IM-SCF

|PlayAnnouncementCount |PlayAnnouncement message count sent by IM-SCF

|PromptAndCollectUserInformationCount |PromptAndCollectUserInformation
message count sent by IM-SCF

|PromptAndCollectUserInformationResultCount
|PromptAndCollectUserInformationResult message count received by IM-SCF

|ReleaseCallCount |ReleaseCall message count sent by IM-SCF

|RequestReportBCSMEventCount |RequestReportBCSMEvent message count send
by IM-SCF

|ResetTimerCount |ResetTimer message count sent by IM-SCF

|SpecializedResourceReportCount |SpecializedResourceReport message count
received by IM-SCF

|SplitLegCount |SplitLeg message count sent by IM-SCF

|SplitLegResponseCount |Response for SplitLeg message count received by
IM-SCF

|TcapReceivedCount |All TCAP messages received by IM-SCF

|TcapBeginReceivedCount |TCAP begin messages received by IM-SCF

|TcapContinueReceivedCount |TCAP continue messages received by IM-SCF

|TcapEndReceivedCount |TCAP end messages received by IM-SCF

|TcapAbortReceivedCount |TCAP abort messages received by IM-SCF

|TcapSentCount |All TCAP messages sent by IM-SCF

|TcapBeginSentCount |TCAP begin messages sent by IM-SCF

|TcapContinueSentCount |TCAP continue messages sent by IM-SCF

|TcapEndSentCount |TCAP end messages sent by IM-SCF

|TcapAbortSentCount |TCAP abort messages sent by IM-SCF
|=======================================================================

The counters all show the number of messages in the last X seconds, a
sliding window is used. The size of the window in seconds can be defined
in the configuration.

MBeans with type __“MapStatistics”__ show messages sent to and received from
HLRs. For each alias a new MBean is registered with the alias. This way,
ATI and FNR queries will have separate statistics, since the counters
for ATI queries towards HLRFE1 will appear under alias “HLRFE1” and FNR
queries towards the same HLR will appear under alias “HLRFE1FNR”. The
MBeans have the following attributes defined:

[cols=",",frame="all",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Counter name |Description
|AnyTimeInterrogationCount |AnyTimeInterrogation message count sent by
IM-SCF

|AnyTimeInterrogationResultCount |AnyTimeInterrogationResult message
count received by IM-SCF

|TcapReceivedCount |All TCAP messages received by IM-SCF

|TcapBeginReceivedCount |TCAP begin messages received by IM-SCF

|TcapContinueReceivedCount |TCAP continue messages received by IM-SCF

|TcapEndReceivedCount |TCAP end messages received by IM-SCF

|TcapAbortReceivedCount |TCAP abort messages received by IM-SCF

|TcapSentCount |All TCAP messages sent by IM-SCF

|TcapBeginSentCount |TCAP begin messages sent by IM-SCF

|TcapContinueSentCount |TCAP continue messages sent by IM-SCF

|TcapEndSentCount |TCAP end messages sent by IM-SCF

|TcapAbortSentCount |TCAP abort messages sent by IM-SCF
|=======================================================================

The counters all show the number of messages in the last X seconds, a
sliding window is used. The size of the window in seconds can be defined
in the configuration.

MBeans with type __“DiameterStatistics”__ have message counters for each
service context ID the diameter modules have dealt with. A new MBean is
defined for each service context id with the following attributes:

[cols=",",frame="all",options="header",]
|===================================================================
|Attribute |Description
|moduleName |The diameter module name which services this context ID
|balanceQueryReceivedCount |The number of incoming balance queries
|balanceQueryAnsweredCount |The number of answered balance queries
|debitQueryReceivedCount |The number of incoming debit queries
|debitQueryAnsweredCount |The number of answered debit queries
|===================================================================

The counters all show the number of messages in the last X seconds, a
sliding window is used. The size of the window in seconds can be defined
in the configuration.
